Wednesday, February 12th
Subnet Mask
Designates your network
Gives you your Network ID and your Host ID (PC Address)
255.255.255.0/24
Tells us that the first three octets are our network, meaning in the ip “192.168.10.1”, your network would be “192.168.10”.
Gives us 8 bits left for our host ID (“1” in the example).
***This subnet mask can hold 256 IP addresses
/24 means that the first 3 octets are the network ID, so if it were “/16” then the first 2 octets are for the network and the last two octets are for your PCs.
If the last octet to the network ID changes (like “192.168.11”), then that means that the PC is in a different network than yours (if you were in “192.168.10”).
Binary
192 in binary: 1100 0000
255 in binary: 1111 1111
IP Address
32 Bits
MAC Address
48 Bits
12 Hexadecimal numbers



Monday, February 10th
Each find one topic that you think is good and then write a one sentence blurb about the topic (do some research about it first).
Subnet Mask
Tells you the network address and host address
255.255.255.X
The network that information goes to
Router uses this
Switches connect to routers and the subnet mask is the identifier for the switch
Router
Keeps track of ports and ips
To transport through routers, you use a router protocol to transfer information to other routers
When routers transfer information, they keep track of the number of hops to make sure it gets to the destination the quickest.
It also takes into account bandwidth and the ethernet cable to make sure it’s the most optimal route to go.

Monday, February 3rd
Packet Tracer
Take physical networks and make them virtual
Network simulation tool designed by Cisco Systems
Allows users to create network topologies and imitate modern computer networks
Simulation tool
Great learning tool
Easy to correct mistakes
Visualize network as a whole
Practice configuring equipment that you may not have access to - and cheaper than real gear. 
Design and test network configurations before you build
Lab 4-3
Simulation mode lets you slow down the process hop-by-hop
To save configs on routers
From the router:
Go to the config tab
Select “Save NVRAM”

Wednesday, January 29th
ARP
Network protocol that asks for the MAC address associated with an IPv4.
Broadcasts it to the network and asks for who knows the answer to it.
Computer starts
Has IPs
Looking for MAC
All “f”s for the MAC address
PC broadcasts the message to the router and then sends it to all the computers on the network, then sends back the MAC address associated to the IP address to the computer that asked.
ARP Cache
System stores the MAC address to the associated IP address
Don’t have to keep sending ARP requests
ARP straddles OSI layers 2 and 3
When broadcasting an ARP request, the max amount of computers you’d really be able to broadcast to would be around 1000, any higher and it’ll clog the computers
To remedy this, computers are broken up to specific routers which reduces the amount of broadcasts being sent.
Lab 3-2
To reboot to a USB
Turn off computer
Turn back on
Spam f2 and delete
Go to boot
Change the usb to be first and second priority
Press escape and save changes
“ifconfig” to get your IP and MAC address on linux
To change your MAC address:
“macchanger -m xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx eth0” where the x’s are the MAC address you want to change to

Monday, January 27th
Logical Address
IP
Physical Address
MAC Address
Static IP address
Computers that won’t move
IE. Servers, CEO, Computers that you ALWAYS want to be active
Dynamic IP address
Computers that’ll turn off, given IP addresses.
Router
Connects LAN to LAN
Comes on and asks for IP addresses
Broadcast
FF (means on)
FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF
Means every MAC address on your network is on
When your PC turns on, it sends out a broadcast (^^^) asking where to send information to (a router and/or a switch)
Broadcast messages are LAN specific
They do not cross LAN
Broadcast goes to switch, switch sends to every PC and the router, router gets it and will stop broadcasting it.
Router doesn’t need to know every MAC address b/c it looks for IP address
On OSI Layer 2 (Data Link)
Switch
Deals with MAC addresses
Sends information between computers
When turned on, asks for MAC addresses and creates a table
When a computer transmits information, it sends it straight to the destination by using the MAC addresses
Once a PC joins the network and is connected to the switch, the MAC address floods the switch network until the switch reads it and adds it to it’s MAC address table.
Switch has 2 modes
Store and forward
Once info comes in, it waits until everything comes in before sending it
Slower
Makes sure all your information gets there
Cut through
Faster
Doesn’t wait for all of the info, just sends it as it comes
If there are missing things then it wouldn’t know, it would just send it.
Not reliable
ARP
Protocol that PC’s use to identify other PCs on the network to get other IP addresses and MAC addresses (An “ARP Request”).
Lab 3-1: ARP Observation
To open the command prompt in admin mode:
From start button - type cmd- and then right-click "command prompt" and select Run As Administrator
The “ipconfig /all” command shows you all of your IPs, include your default gateway, IPv4, IPv6, etc.
To start a wireshack capture, click on the “Ethernet0 2” and it will start collecting information
To stop capture in wireshark, click the red square in the top right
When you first try to run it on the VM, it was say that it might not work right because it seems malicious, but it’s not and it works fine.

Wednesday, January 22nd
IP Addresses
Tell your three things
Network (192)
Host (168)
MAC Address
Example:
192.168.1.1
4 Bytes
Layer 3 of the OSI Model (Networking)
MAC Address
12 Hexadecimal digits
Uses 6 bytes (or 48 bits)
Example:
1F:A2:3C:4B:S2:6T
The first three sets tell you the manufacturer, the last three digits are created randomly by the manufacturer (Serial Number)
Layer 2 of the OSI Model (Data Link)
To find your MAC address
Type in “if config”
MAC address is the hexadecimal number
Subnet Mask
Example: 255.255.255.0
The “255”s show that they are on
The last one is your network host (not a lot)
Class A Networks
Give one network and a lot of hosts
255.0.0.0
“/8” shows that the first 8 bytes are turned on (255.0.0.0)
Military use mainly
Class B Networks
More networks, medium size hosts
Fortune 500s can use these as well as consumers
255.255.0.0
“/16” shows that the first 16 bytes are turned on (255.255.0.0)
Class C Networks
Private IPs and home networks for less hosts
Larger Network, smaller hosts
Made for consumers
255.255.255.0
“/32” shows that the first 32 bytes are turned on (255.255.255.0)
Wireshark
Network capturing software
Captures all of the traffic (packets) in and out of a specific computer
Useful to tell if something is being accessed that shouldn’t be.
Can be used to see where things are being accessed from and if it becomes too slow you can add more network points there.
Packet Sniffer / Packet Capture
Downside
It can capture sensitive information

Monday, January 20th
LAN
Local Area Network
Home network is LAN
Two most commonly used in modern LANs are…
Ethernet
Protocols and standards used for wired communications CSMA/CD LAN protocol
Wifi
Protocols and standards used for wireless communications


WAN
Wide Area Network
Two LANs connected together
MAN
Metropolitan Area Network
Networks that connect larger cities together
PAN
Around a person
Topologies
The network architecture used to interconnect the networking equipment
Different types of topologies
Bus
One thick cable (copper) that connects to thinner cables that are then connected to computers
Cons
If the cable breaks, your network goes down
Limited bandwidth (lots of collision)
Star Network
Central device (HUB or switch) that connects multiple computers
HUB
Relays information to every other port 
Dummy device
Clogs up the network
Switch
Transfers information to the corresponding computer
Computer sends info to the Hub where it wants to send the info to another computer, the HUB reads the MAC addresses until it finds the right computer and sends the info
Con
If the HUB is down then all the computers will be down and will not be able to talk
Ring Network
Single token travels around and allows for use by each computer it goes to for some time
Pros
Prevents collisions
If one computer goes down, the network will stay intact
Lab 2-1
The Netmask tells us what parts of the address are the host and network portions.
To change the IP for Kali
Click the network settings
Click on the gear next to the “Wired” settings
Go to IPv4
Put in the address “192.168.100.x” where x is your machine number
Set the netmask to “255.255.255.0”
Click apply
Toggle the switch next to the gear icon



Wednesday, January 15th 2020

VM
A way to use different operating systems on the same computer
Mac, Linux, Windows
Adds extra security and a way to use the different OS
OSI Model
OSI model is a network protocol framework that uses 7 layers
The 7 layers define the different stages that data must go through to travel from one device to another over a network.
When data goes through the layers, it strips down the data.
7 Layers in the OSI Model
Application Data
Uses images, ASCII characters
Pulls the standard that shows images and characters
Network: The data that the computer is sending / receiving
“I would like to view the webpage google.com”
Presentation Layer
Compression, encryption, other encoding
Session layer
Do I have to separate data or is it so much that I need to break it down
Session setup and tear down.
***Application, Presentation, and Session are all normally viewed as the same layer
Transportation Layer (4)
Goes from A to B
Get this package out
Is it TCP? UDP?
TCP
Sends all information
UDP
Faster, sends information that sometimes gets lost but that’s ok
Used in videos cause it reduces latency
Checks if the computer is awake to receive the information
Port numbers tell receiver what application the data is for
Port 80 - HTTP web traffic
Port 25 - SMTP e-mail
Port 22 - SSH
Network Layer
Which router it’s going to take
Where it’s going
Checking IP
Going through private, public, multiple
IP Address of sender and receiver
Data Link layer
Needs to know your home address
Home address = MAC address
When I get to my destination, who do I bring it to
Defines how the packets get onto the media
When is it safe to send - prevent collisions with other data
Is the recipient ready to receive
Physical Layer
Takes information and ASCII characters and converts it to Binary
Physically sends bits over media
Copper wires, fiber optic, radio, etc.
Please (Physical)
Do (Data Link)
Not (Network)
Throw (Transportation) 
Sausage (Session)
Pizza (Presentation)
Away (Application)
OSI and Network Protocols
Standards are official guidelines that companies build and follow
Different from protocols because protocols are a specific set of rules and standards and guidelines that you just have to follow and stay within the line.
Why use a layered model like OSI?
Dividing layers helps:
Both protocol designers and implementers manage the complexity
To concentrate on one aspect of communication at a given time.


Class Lab 1-1:
When you’re trying to sign in to Microsoft, instead click “Domain Join”.
Setting up Windows 10 VM
Bridged connection type connects directly to the physical network.
“Ipconfig” displays information about your IP addresses
“Tracert” followed by an address (tracert www.google.com) prints all the routers that you encounter between your computer and the website.
“Nslookup” is used before you type in a website to query the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain the domain or IP address of the website.
Use it by typing “nslookup” and then pressing enter, then typing in the URL of a website.
